# System
An attempt to schematise my entire system.

# Tasks
- [x] Create Guix System installer with nonguix loaded
- [x] Install Guix System
    - Followed this: https://joshblais.com/blog/installing-non-guix/
- [x] Set up wifi
    - Had to pull in the system service and open KWalletManager (as I am using KDE Plasma and it uses that to store the Wifi secrets)
- [x] Configure channels and substitutes
    - The substitutes were especially important because Guix kept trying to build massive dependencies like gcc without them. These would take hours and sometimes fail, killing the whole build
- [x] Get browser
- [x] Set up bluetooth
    - Just needed to add the service
- [x] Install dev tools
- [x] Get Steam
- [x] Get better GPU drivers
- [x] Figure out why Guix used user from previous generation after reconfigutation
    - It was actually because the users had the same names in the config file
- [x] Write up instructions for deployment
- [x] Figure out what's wrong with the zsh user shell
    - I just needed to make sure `.profile` existed in my home directory. I think Guix Home is supposed to create that, but I didn't set it up so it wasn't there and the user session failed(?). I had to Alt-F2 into a tty session and create the file
- [ ] Fix audio drifting
    - Might need to get [home](https://guix.gnu.org/manual/devel/en/html_node/Home-Configuration.html) going to use [pipewire](https://guix.gnu.org/manual/devel/en/html_node/Sound-Home-Services.html#PipeWire-Home-Service)
    - Looks like you can define a home env in Guix system configs: https://guix.gnu.org/manual/devel/en/html_node/Guix-Services.html#guix_002dhome_002dservice_002dtype
- [ ] Pull in dotfiles
- [ ] Set up symlink farm (either Stow or Guix home)
- [ ] Consolidate dotfiles with farm
- [ ] Get terminal emulator (Ghostty or something else)
- [ ] Set up programming env
    - All my favourite tools and languages
- [ ] Set up reading env
    - eReader
    - eBooks
- [ ] Write up instructions for maintenance

# Deployment
1. Flash a USB with the installer iso from [Nonguix](https://gitlab.com/nonguix/nonguix#installation-image)
2. Boot from the USB and run through the GUI installer up to the point where you can configure the system definition.
3. Add the linux kernel, initrd microcode, and linux firmware as well as git, ssh, and a browser to make it easier to clone this repo:
```diff
- (use-modules (gnu))
+ (use-modules (gnu)
+              (gnu packages ssh)
+              (gnu packages version-control)
+              (gnu packages librewolf)
+              (nongnu packages linux)
+              (nongnu system linux-initrd))
(use-service-modules cups desktop networking ssh xorg)

(operating-system
+ (kernel linux)
+ (initrd microcode-initrd)
+ (firmware (list linux-firmware))
```
Add the imported packages:
```diff
+ (packages (append 
+             (list 
+               git 
+               openssh
+               librewolf
```
4. Save the file.
5. Open a TTY session with `Ctrl+Alt+F3`.
6. Initialise the system:
```
herd start cow-store /mnt 
guix system init /mnt/etc/config.scm /mnt
```
7. Reboot and pull out the USB.
```
reboot
```
8. Clone this repo, add channels, and update Guix:
```
ln -s ~/System/channels.scm ~/.config/guix/channels.scm
guix pull
```
9. Update `~/System/config.scm` to use the `bootloader`, `mapped-devices`, `swap-devices`, and `file-system` values generated by the installation. These can be found here: `/etc/config.scm`.
10. Set passwords for root and any other users (otherwise you might get locked out at login):
```
passwd <user>
```
11. Reconfigure the system using the repo config and pass in substitutes as they're not available until after the rebuild:
```
sudo guix archive --authorize < System/nonguix-signing-key.pub
sudo guix system reconfigure System/config.scm --substitute-urls='https://ci.guix.gnu.org https://bordeaux.guix.gnu.org https://substitutes.nonguix.org'
```
12. WiFi may not be working so try [this](https://wiki.systemcrafters.net/guix/nonguix-installation-guide/#connecting-to-the-internet) or set up DNS by adding the following to `/etc/resolv.conf`:
```
nameserver 1.1.1.1
nameserver 8.8.8.8
```
You're done! (hopefully)
